>> Erik Reinert: So we have an environment
and we have a network, right?
So the next thing we need to do is we need
to solve the next logical problem, right?
If we remember our graph or our chart,
we had a database in there.
So why don't we go ahead and
add that next?
So I'm going to say new directory and
I'm going to call it database.
And now I have a database directory or
module that I'm ready to set up.
Then inside of that,
we'll do a main TF file as well.
Again, this is a pretty common pattern of
create a module, create a main TF file.
Create a module, create a main TF file.
Now, I'm creating the main TF file for
our terraform module.
As before, this is a situation
where I have some data or
some parameter that I need to create.
Because before I create my resource,
in this case, it's a password.
And so we already have this convention of
like, well, I know that if I create my SSH
keys, I can put those in SSM and
developers can get access to them.
Why not do the same thing for
the database password as well?
And so
that's exactly what we end up doing here.
We create a random string,
we take that value and
we store it in SSM as a parameter
called database password.
Then underneath that,
we create our actual database itself.
This is really where you would modify
pretty much any specific database
instance setting.
Again, I am using
a module terraform RDS or
the Amazon provider has
direct resources for
managing databases, but
there's multiple ones to do it.
RDS instance or a group, and then a subnet
group and a bunch of other things.
Again, I'm using a module here
simply to solve that problem and
make it easier for
me to create this database.
And again, what's nice is that this module
kind of makes those parameters more
towards what problems I'm trying to solve,
which is why I like those.
If you think about it,
when you use raw terraform resources,
you are solving options that
the cloud provider is giving you.
You might not know what like
a volume parameter is or
some other weird things, right?
But they're abstracting it into a module,
into a way where it just says, like,
do you want a volume or not?
You know what I mean?
It makes it easier to understand.
And so again, that's just another reason,
especially with more complex things
like rds, RDS can be very confusing.
Again, you normally hire somebody
to manage your database and
they would absolutely know
a lot of the parameters or
things like that that
would go into creating it.
In this case,
we're creating a very simple database.
We're creating a 50 gigabyte
storage volume for it.
We're not creating a option group,
we're not creating a parameter group,
we're not creating a subnet group,
we're not creating a monitoring role.
So we're kind of going
very bare bones with this.
We're giving it an existing subnet group,
which is our network that
we've already created.
Remember we created a database subnet and
so we're actually telling the module,
well, no, you can use the VPC
name as the subnet group
because the VPC name is
the environment network name.
We are setting the engine to postgres.
We're using 17.2.
So again, going back to that whole
how do you know your devs locally
are using the same version as
your database in the cloud?
More than likely you would make this
be the standard de facto or default.
And then everything would
follow this version.
We wouldn't reverse it to
where this follows devs.
We would make it so
that this is the standard and
all devs follow what's in production.
So in this case we would make sure
that everything was up to date.
It was 17.2 IAM database
authentication enabled.
So this is kind of a newer thing,
but this basically makes it so
that you can use AWS's IAM security
practices to connect to a database.
Instead of just doing like postgres user
and postgres password, it actually can
set up identities in the database directly
with IAM roles and stuff and users.
And so you, you can actually before,
when we created an IM user, right,
you could actually use that to
connect to the database and
that would integrate with
the database directly.
We're not gonna use that for
now, cause we don't need it.
We also are telling it our
max allocated storage.
So this is actually a database.
And this is really one of the nice
things about this is one of the things
that's really nice about RDS
is that it has scale, right?
So if you're in a scenario where
you're like, well, I only want 50, but
I don't want my database to freeze up
when we hit 50 because I don't want my
production environment to go down.
You can tell it, all right,
I want to do a max allocated of 100, so
it will allocate out at least
double of its normal size.
So you don't have to worry about that.
And then you can put like alerting and
logging and monitoring around it.
So if it hits the 75 area you go,
okay, crap, we might need to increase
the max allocated more or figure out why
you're consuming so much data storage.
By default, Amazon creates
parameter groups and option groups.
They are pretty much
what they say they are.
They are the literal options that
you provide to postgres from like
the configuration file and
the same thing for parameters.
So again, if you're really, really
proficient with postgres to the point
where you know all the, you know,
parameters required for the database that
you need, then you would create your own
parameter group and or option group.
In this case, we don't need it.
Amazon provides defaults for each.
And so that's what we're using.
We're using basically the default
parameter group postgres17 and
the default option group
postgres17 as well.
I'll be fair, this is all pretty standard.
It's tweaked and tuned to run
on their infrastructure as well.
It's always worked for me.
I haven't really needed to jump
too deep into either of those.
The password we are setting is that
random string password result.
So we're actually able to inject it
not just into the SSM parameter above,
but we can even use it
in multiple locations.
Again, that's another nice thing
about HCL is it is programmable,
it is a language and so you can do
the same normal reuse values and
all that kind of stuff with it as well.
This one's a big one.
Publicly accessible.
False.
We are migrating for the complete
purpose of making this offline and
behind a VPC or behind a network firewall.
And so in this case we're telling it no,
we do not want you to
be public accessible.
This is why the bastion host can be very
helpful if you need somebody to be able
to directly access the database.
You know for a fact that they won't be
able to do that unless they go through
the process you want them to.
Which again would be like, you know,
jumping on the bastion host,
maybe having the credentials there that
they need so that they can, you know,
connect to the database.
And maybe those credentials are read only.
You don't have to worry as much
about them breaking anything.
Skip final snapshot.
So this is just a more of a redundancy.
If you delete this database, it can keep
you a final snapshot after it's deleted,
and it'll take that snapshot
before it gets deleted so
that it has a final snapshot of your data.
This is up to you.
I don't normally keep this because I
will also potentially do other kinds
of data backups or other things like that.
So in this case it's up to you.
If you want to enable it, it just means
that when you delete the database,
there's going to be a snapshot
saved of it username.
So the username is actually
pretty straightforward.
It's just the name that
we provide the module and
then any dashes are replaced
with underscores.
And that's just a postgres
kind of standard.
Normally when you create usernames in
postgres they have underscores with them.
In this case it's going to be
based off of the environment.
There's a pretty big reason for that.
If you recall, we're creating environments
and we're putting a database inside of it.
That means that this is a shared database
is really all I'm trying to say.
This is an environment database.
That means that multiple services
will connect to this database.
You'll create multiple,
multiple databases inside of the instance.
But the reason why we're doing this
is because we want to save money.
We could provision a database
per service if we wanted to and
have more of a microservice approach.
But this is also, like we're balancing
between saving money and also scaling out.
A lot of RDS instances just
become a lot more money.
So I don't necessarily recommend
it in non production environments.
So at my company we have a shared
database per environment that we
then can control access to and everything.
And then in production we scale out to
where every service has its own database.
But in my mind it's just a better
cost-effective way of handling for
if you don't need to have a isolated
database per service, but
if you wanted to, you could last
thing VPC Security Group IDs.
So as we said before, we are traffic
shaping by security group, right?
And so in this case we would provide it
the security groups that it should be
attached to for access.
We gave in the network module,
if you remember, we created a security
group called DB and then we allowed
the private network access to it.
So in this case the only security group
that we need to give it is the database
security group because
we don't really care
about it needing to access anything else.
And we don't want to necessarily give
it the entire private security group.
We just want to make it so
private can access it.
That's it.
That's why we're making it use
its database security group and
then just Making a firewall rule from
private to database allows access.
So only need one security group there.
Cool.
Okay, so that is the instance or
the main RDS module.
There's just a couple of
other things we're gonna use.
The first one is going to be
the variables or variables.
Again, we are picking variables that
make it so that this is dynamic.
Right?
So if I take this module and
I use it somewhere else,
I should be able to use it pretty easily.
Right.
And so the biggest things that we really
care about in this module as a variable
are the name, the security groups that
it's connecting or that it's using to
connect with the subnets that it's using
to connect to, and then the VPC name
that it's going to be provisioned in.
What's again nice about this is this
should mean that even if I use this in
a completely other project,
this module completely somewhere else,
it shouldn't have opinions to the point
where I can't just easily do that without,
without a couple of options.
And so these are like a good example of
that where if I wanted to use this module
in a completely separate project,
in a completely separate whatever,
I should be able to
without too much trouble.
Cool.
Okay, so
database is actually
really straightforward.
It's just those two files and
then we go back into our environment
directory and we add a new module.
So again, before I was in the database
directory, database main variables.
Now I'm going out, I'm going into
the environment directory and
then I'm going to the main file in there.
So when you're composing modules, there
is definitely a lot of hopping around.
Like, okay, I'm gonna go into this module,
do this, and I'm gonna go over here and
do this, and
I'm gonna import this module from here.
So yeah, I just want to note that
we will be hopping around a bit and
if you ever feel like you're lost or
anything like that, you can use the.
Whenever I'm in here,
you can use the path at the top to
see where I am, or you can just ask.
Feel free to ask as well.
I'm going to go to
the environment main TF and
now what I've done is I've
added a module for my database.
This is starting to look
like an actual environment.
Now what's nice or what I like about it at
least is that when you get to this layer,
when you're at the environment module,
it's pretty easy to read.
Like, it's actually not that difficult.
Okay, I get a network, I get a database.
These are the settings for
the network, right?
These are the settings for the database.
It's not as granular as
the modules underneath it.
So that makes it a lot easier.
Again, when you're in
those scenarios of like,
can we just get a whole new environment?
Yeah, actually, you can, because it's
a lot easier to configure because we've
abstracted away all of those
challenges and those problems, right?
And so, yeah, now as an organization,
we don't just have an environment, but
we have an easy way to create databases,
right?
We have an easy way to create networks.
So the more that we invest into this,
the more it should pay off and help us,
you know.